# data-gc-ca-api 2.0.0 README

## Introduction
data-gc-ca-api: a simple python api for the Canada Open Data Portal

The Government of Canada recently released a number of open data sets at the
website [www.data.gc.ca](http://www.data.gc.ca/).  This simple python package
has tools for accessing the [City Weather](http://goo.gl/Xkcqp) open data set.
It could be expanded to include more.

The data_gc_ca_api directory contains the file cityweather.py which has two
classes City and CityIndex. There two classes can be used to access all
available quatities published in the Environment Canada city XML files.
Environment Canada provides a [description](http://goo.gl/XD7w4) of what can be
accessed but it's far easier to look at an example [city
XML](http://goo.gl/vyL7r).

Updated to work with Python 3.

## Command line tool: weatherca

This package also includes a command line tool 'weatherca' for quickly getting
information. It also serves as an example of how to use the data-gc-ca-api
python module. 

Here are some quick examples of how to use the weatherca:

    $ weatherca --help

List the available cities:

    $ weatherca --list

Show the current temperature in Victoria:

    $ weatherca --city "Victoria" --quantity currentConditions/temperature

Get the wind speed in Ottawa:

    $ weatherca --city "Ottawa (Richmond - Metcalfe)" --quantity currentConditions/wind/speed

Show the list of available retreivable quantities for Edmonton:

    $ weatherca --city Edmonton --list-quantities

## Contributors

* Ian Gable
* Johan Harjono

## Data License

The terms for accessing the data available from the Canada Open Data Portal can
be found by visiting the [www.data.gc.ca](http://www.data.gc.ca/)

## Software License

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of either:

a) the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any
later version, or

b) the Apache v2 License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See either the GNU General Public License or the Apache v2
License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the Apache v2 License with this software, in
the file named "LICENSE".

You should also have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program in the file named "COPYING". If not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
02110-1301, USA or visit their web page on the internet at
http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html.

